19/11
First we try and see how balancing works, for this I am visualizing both the literal middle point of the ragdoll
as well as the weighted middle point (aka multiplying by mass/total mass instead of rigidbody amount)

Now it may seem obvious, but we can't use the literal middle point, as it doesn't accurately predict that the ragdoll will
fall over like the weighted one does.

- We need to know when you're unbalanced to be able to stand up while keeping balance.

The further the center of mass is from the base the harder it is to push yourself up

What is the base? Is it the feet, the hips or maybe even the literal middle point?
I'm taking an educated guess in saying it's not the literal middle part. And since you can fall over forwards
even if the hips are tiled behind you it's not that either. 
So I'm now guessing it's the legs and feet when you're standing up. The balancing muscles.
So when you're on your hands and feet it's both your upper body and your lower body that are the base.
From observing the super simple active ragdoll I've made your center of mass seems to have to be in 
the middle of this "base". So if you're in a pushup position your base are your arms and legs, so if one of those
collapses you will "lose stability" aka fall. To push yourself up from the position you have to make sure the center of
mass stays in the middle of this base.

Counter argument, if you were to have a stick with a big heavy ball at the top and a piston with insane strength
at the base. So the center of gravity is over that piston and 
so not in the middle of the base, but it could still push you up.
So in hypothesis this strong piston could just be your ankles. Although if it's your ankles your feet won't have the grip.

But it does seem to mean you can't assume that you're only (un)balanced if the center of gravity 
is in the middle of the base. 
- So using this new scenario let's come up with a more precise definition of unbalanced.

Let's make a sketch of this scenario and draw all the forces, that seems like the next step. 

20/11
So what I've thought of is that it really doesn't matter, as this scenario would never happen. Since it's only possible
with an external force applier, which isn't part of this research.


27/12

I found some sources between the last note entry and now, they're sources explaining the biomechanics that I've been struggling with figuring out myself.
I also found a source on reddit saying why euphoria the physics animation engine used by rockstar games for GTA isn't used more, it's very frigging expensive.

Also a word to keep in mind DYNAMIC MOTION SYNTHESIS

28/12

I bought puppet master to not have to make my own ghost skeleton system.

I'm gonna be testing a few solutions to getting up and testing them on a bunch of things from how realistic they are,
how expandable, how resource expensive, how difficult to set up, etc...

The solutions I will be testing are the following: 1. 


So far working with puppet master has been a real pain, the out of the box solution has just been scooting on the floor
or getting up in a very unrealistic manner. Looks like I'll have to customize it somewhat.